The materials contained in the Addresses and State Papers of Theodore
Roosevelt, while President of the United States, possess far more than
a transitory interest and value. It is obvious indeed that for the
future student of American politics and history their preservation in
convenient and authentic form is not merely an important service, but
an indispensable one; for it would have been impossible to collate
them in any accurate or complete way from the scattered files of
newspapers, especially since many of the addresses were delivered
at points remote from news centers, and some of these were very
inadequately reported by the press. This observation, it is needless
to say, does not apply to the formal State Papers—chiefly messages
to Congress—for such official deliverances are duly preserved and
published by the Government itself. It is, however, suitable as well
as convenient to include these State Papers in a collection of the
recent utterances of President Roosevelt, for reasons so obvious as to
need little comment.

The palpable fact is that President Roosevelt’s messages to Congress
and a large number of his speeches, delivered in various parts of
the country in his capacity as President, pertain to the same topics
and serve a like public purpose. The messages must, of course, deal
with matters affecting the welfare of the nation, and with various
questions of public business or policy, in those aspects that bear
upon the work of Congress. It is the President’s Constitutional right
and duty to present information upon such topics, or to expound
them from the standpoint of the Administration. In the long series
of Presidential messages one may, indeed, read the history of this
country for more than a hundred years. To that official narrative
these messages by Mr. Roosevelt add some of the most fascinating
chapters.

The speeches here collected, on the other hand, have a much wider
range. Nevertheless, a great number of the addresses and speeches do
in fact deal with precisely the same topics as those presented in the
messages to Congress, and were intended not merely for a particular
audience but for the whole country through the medium of the press.
And for Mr. Roosevelt’s full disclosure of his views and policies
touching some questions of large public concern, it is necessary to
read his speeches in connection with his general or special messages
to Congress. Since a number of his speeches here printed, like his
general messages, deal with a variety of matters, the reader who
wishes to compare and collate his utterances upon a given subject—as,
for example, the regulation of the trusts, the reorganization of the
army, the relations of the United States to Cuba, or our methods and
policies of administration in the Philippines—will find it desirable
to consult the index, which is intended to make these volumes
available for ready reference.

Quite apart from their obvious value for reference purposes to the
student of our contemporary history and politics, or to the campaign
speaker of one party or another—who may wish to know authoritatively
what Mr. Roosevelt said about various public issues—this collection of
addresses has several distinct merits and advantages that must give it
a place among works relating to the national life and character. Mr.
Roosevelt, as an exponent of the aims and ideals of a great portion
of his own generation of men and women in the United States, stands
unquestionably first. In two volumes of his previously collected
essays and papers, one entitled _American Ideals_ and the other _The
Strenuous Life_, both of which are included in the present edition
of his works, Mr. Roosevelt has expressed with remarkable vigor,—as
well as with an unwavering conviction and a wholesome philosophy
of work and courage,—those views of politics, citizenship, and
organized social and economic life to which the best conscience and
intelligence of his fellow-countrymen have made sympathetic response.
These essays, it is true, set forth no abstract scheme of political or
social philosophy. Yet out of them there might be evolved a systematic
body of doctrine relating to the duties of citizenship in a democracy,
and to the ethics of administration and government. The explanation
is that the doctrines and principles have come to be embodied in the
character and convictions of the man himself; and thus the essays
and addresses have not been the mere intellectual products of a man
addicted to the use of the pen or to the phrasing of sentences, but
rather the direct and wellnigh spontaneous expression of Mr. Roosevelt
in relation to topics rendered timely by events and occasions.

In like manner and in an even higher sense, these later speeches,
made under the sobering sense of responsibility that must come with
the holding of so great an office as the Presidency, express Mr.
Roosevelt’s convictions respecting our American life and citizenship
in such manner as to form a sort of record for the study of the
psychology of the nation at the beginning of the twentieth century.

Furthermore, these addresses and public papers, while to some extent
homely, unstudied and unconventional in their phraseology, have the
quality of permanent literature in a much higher measure than the
utterances of almost any other American public man of our time.
The traditional American political oratory is highly stilted and
artificial—overloaded with rhetoric and figures of speech, lacking
vernacular force and directness. While the orotund and rhetorical
method of the past has largely disappeared, there has followed it
another method almost equally artificial, in which the stately periods
of the old-fashioned orator have been succeeded by the illustrative
amusing anecdote, the highly burnished witticism, and the pointed
phrase or apothegm.
